so you've signed up for the timer rooll
at your local Toast Masters Club but
you're not exactly sure how to do it
properly and it would be really helpful
to see an actual example of this role
being done don't worry you've landed on
the right place because whether it's
your first time taking on the timer roll
or if you've done this rooll many times
before but you're simply looking to
improve your skills in the timer roll
this is the video for you I am going to
show you my personal live example of
taking on the timer roll at my local
Toast Masters Club now there's another
video I'm going to link to up above
where I break down the timer roll
without the live example but in a lot of
depth so that might be another video
that you want to check out before you
take on this role at our Toast Masters
Club there are two elements to the timer
role the first is a timer introduction
where the timer explains why the timer
rule exists and how it works in terms of
the timing and either the lights or
pieces of paper that will be shown at
the various timings and then in the
second half of the meeting toward the
end there's a timer report and the timer
report goes through every single role in
the meeting and whether those
individuals were within the allotted
time and what their specific timing was
so let's start off with that live
example here is me giving the timer
introduction at my local to post Masters
Club picture this you're asked to give a
presentation a 30-minute presentation at
an upcoming event you're so excited
you're practicing and practicing then
you get to the event and the previous
speaker is going a little bit long first
5 minutes then 10 minutes then 15
minutes the event organizer comes up to
you and says in order to keep things on
time do you mind dialing back your
speech now you're rushing it's not as
good as you practice this is not a fun
situation to be in and this is why we
practice timing at Toast Masters to
ensure we're not that person causing an
event to be off time I will be keeping
track of time on the agenda you have
your allotted timing for each Roll But
as an example for a table topics
question you have 2 minutes so at the
one minute Mark you're going to see the
green piece of paper perfect you can
wrap up whenever it's comfortable but
you have a bit extra time the yellow
piece of paper that that means you're at
that Midway point you should probably
start thinking about wrapping up cuz if
you see the red piece of paper it means
you have gone too long you need to end
your speech I'll give a report at the
end of the meeting thank you
Mr all right so there you have it that
was my timer introduction at my recent
meeting and overall I was happy with how
I did this what you may notice is I gave
a bit of a creative opening to really
give a real life example or context of
why timing matters I find a lot of
Toastmasters timers simply come up and
they explain the lights but we're not
really thinking through of why we're
doing this in the first place so I tried
to give that real life example and if
you're able to do that at your toast
Master's club and explain not just how
the timer R works but why a timer R
exists I think it will be very powerful
one thing you may have noticed is that
we didn't have the timing lights the
reason for that this particular meeting
our club was meeting at a different
location than our regular location and
those lights weren't transported along
with the other materials but that's all
right you adapt it was very simple we
were able to use a green a yellow and a
red sheet of paper which work very
similar to the lights there was a bit of
a challenge for the zoom audience to see
those pieces of paper but usually our
meeting uses Toast Masters timing lights
I think overall this was a great
introduction if I really had to critique
how I could have made this a little bit
better typically we want that timer
introduction to be around 1 minute and I
was at about 1 minute 15 seconds so
perhaps a little bit long but I didn't
want to rush too much as I was speaking
so overall that was how I took on the
timer introduction and I hope that
that's a helpful blueprint for how you
can take on that introduction as well so
next up I had at the end of the meeting
the timer report and here is what I will
say about the majority of timer reports
that I see at Toast Masters they are so
boring they are so boring to listen to
and it's important information people
need to know where they were at TimeWise
but most reports I see go something like
this Sam was at 1 minute 45 seconds
which was the yellow light that was good
timing bill was 1 minute 12 seconds good
job Bill Diane was 2 minutes and 4
seconds which is a little bit over the
2-minute time so Diane you want to bring
that back next time a little bit quick
for the first spee H it's so boring and
while our own information is important
and we're listening for our own number
all of the rest of the timings
throughout the meeting don't really
matter to us as Toast Masters and it's a
long two-minute report to sit through
therefore I wanted to make this more
exciting and I wanted to give you an
example of how you can spice up the
timer role and I think the opportunity
is to try to incorporate the theme of
the meeting in the example I'm about to
show you the theme of that meeting was
board games so I tried to do my best to
incorporate as many board game names as
possible along with my report I put a
tiny asterisk beside the words which you
will see on the screen see how many of
them that you catch but this was my way
of making it a little bit creative so
let's take a look at my timer
report Pablo started the sequence of
events with AE 45 Samantha executed
Perfection at
151 sorry to say jany was a little bit
short with 59 seconds on her first
Garian role guess who spoke for 7
minutes 33 seconds it was uh me Dan
clued in on the yellow light at a minute
50 J wouldn't settle for Katan with his
wife so he spoke for a minute 51 Shania
didn't want to risk going over time but
ended up being a little bit short at 45
seconds Sophia got mous trapped over
time at 2:15 Samantha had a monopoly on
Perfection timing in at a minute 25
Pablo had the operation of explaining
the importance of games and did so with
a minute and 37 seconds Johnny had a
twister of thought but ended up landing
at 1 minute 44 seconds St wanted to
leave her Legacy but was short at 44
seconds with the rebuttal Moya expired
her ticket to ride going well over time
at 2 minutes 15 seconds aitt reflected
on The Game of Life and came in at a
minute 42 Sue gave feedback with tact
and diplomacy in her evaluation that was
2 minutes and 33 seconds Luke sure used
his Cranium to give detailed evaluations
for everyone coming in at 5 minutes and
59 seconds and Johnny hit the payday of
speaking opportunities three speaking
opportunities she sure paid in with that
last one 2 minutes 42 seconds thank you
Mr Toast
wow all right there you have it and
hopefully that gives you a little bit of
confidence that you can have some fun
with the timer roll but you don't have
to take get to this level because it is
challenging there's a lot going on
you're trying to keep the time you're
trying to turn on the timing lights if
necessary you're trying to write down
all the numbers and then to also
incorporate the
theme that's tricky that's not an easy
thing to do if you are an elite
Toastmaster and you want to try to do
this and incorporate the theme with your
responses one tip I have for you is to
do research beforehand so in this
meeting I had researched the top 100
board games and then I wrote down on the
side of my timer report sheet of paper
many of the ones that I knew I could
incorporate words like sorry twister The
Game of Life I knew I would be able to
incorporate these depending on how the
timing had gone for example if someone
was too short or too long that would be
a great chance to inject Sor as part
part of that report and then I was
simply writing down the times and
linking the appropriate board game in my
notes this is an elite skill and if it's
your first time taking on the timer
report don't try to do something like
this where you incorporate the theme
because that's really tough to do but
here's what I encourage you to do when
you give the timer report don't get in
that habit of staring at a piece of
paper in front of you reading in
monotone as you read off everyone's
timings one after
another don't forget about your audience
don't forget about all the things we
talk in Toast Masters about eye contact
body language even if you're holding
your notes because you probably will
need notes you're not going to memorize
all of the
timings look at your notes read the
timing and then make that ey contact
with the individual in the club while
maintaining third person if you're able
to do that I promise you you are going
to be heads and shoulders above the vast
majority of timer reports because so
often they are that monotone no body
language simply reading off of a piece
of paper and I think there's a real
opportunity for taking on this role and
spicing it up with a little bit of
creativity I hope this video with the
live examples of both the timer
introduction and the timer report have
inspired you or perhaps helped explain
what this role is why it exists how you
can do a great intro how you can take on
a report with a little bit of creativity
and flare if it was helpful let me know
in the comments I love doing these types
of videos to help you on your Toast
Masters journey to help you on your
public speaking Journey if you haven't
yet subscribed to my Channel please do
that because I aim to create great video
content to help make you a more
impactful communicator but regardless
thank you so much for taking the time to
watch this video I will catch you on the
next one